Let me ask you this if you were a Web site owner would you want people to scrape your Web site.
Would you want people to access your data.
Maybe your Air B and B and you worked really hard to list these products.
Different information on here.
Is it fair that anybody can come and just grab this information and maybe make a copy of your Web site
but not really right.
I mean it depends.
Most of the time you don't really want people scraping your Web sites although each mail and the data
over a Web site is available to all of us.
It's just how our internet works so that people can see different web pages.
Most Web sites don't really want you scraping their data.
Now there's actually a way that Web sites tell you what you can and can't screen.
It's called Robots dot text.
We simply say at the end of a U.R.L. slash robots Dot T X.
Click enter.
Look at that air B being B has a robots dot taxed robots dot text simply says hey if you're a robot.
If you're a web scraper or a spider This is why you're allowed and not allowed to do.
Does it mean that they'll prevent us if we break the rules.
No they can't really prevent us.
But this is a gray area where you want to be ethical here and only scrape the data that a Web site allows
you.
So if we look at robots tax you see here that Air B and B has created a tax file that tells us what
you can and can't scrape.
For example we look at the user agent here which says the Google bought Air B and B is telling Hey Google
but you're allowed to scrape this information but we don't allow you to scrape account alumni calendar
and you see that there's a lot of things that's disallowed.
What about Bing search bot.
Well bank you're allowed to do this but he can't scrape any of this data.
We have Yandex board.
What else do we have.
We have by do spider and then we also have user agent Starr.
That means anybody else anybody else you're allowed to scrape this but none of this information.
All right let's go to another one.
Let's go to you Demi dot.com.
Here we see that anybody we don't want you to scrape or crawl through any of this information but we
do allow you to access this API 2.0 course landing components.
All right so that's too bad.
It looks like you Demi doesn't really allow us to do anything other than this API 2.0 thing which will
come back to what about Hacker News.
We're going to build a project around hacker news so let's see if a hacker news allows us to scrape
it.
All right.
So this list is a little bit smaller.
We see that for all users we're disallowed to use these end points so it's saying as long as you don't
use these once these you or else we're good to go.
That is if we wanted to scrape just the home page which is right here.
That's fine if we're trying to let's say go to comments that's fine too because this one wasn't in robots.
Don't text again if you remember.
If we go to robots dot text that's fine.
The only thing that they ask is that we have a cruel delay of 30.
That is if we're going to crawl their Web site we should have a pause so that we don't constantly use
programs to hit the Web site because well this is going to overload their servers and maybe slow down
their website.
So what do we just learn.
We learned that there is ethical and unethical ways of scraping Web sites.
Yes you can scrape any Web site you want.
And as a matter of fact there's chrome plugins if you Google Chrome plugin web scraper.
There's a ton of Web scrapers that you can use that allow you to scrape Web sites without even writing
a single line of code.
It's a good thing to practice ethical programming.
And that means checking the Web site's terms and condition before you scrape it checking their robots
dot text to see what you can and can't scrape because usually the data you scrape from a Web site should
not be used for commercial purposes because you're using somebody else's hard work too.
Well perhaps make money.
And this is why when we went to Hacker News and asked for a cruel delay of 30 seconds.
Right.
If you're requesting data from a Web site too aggressively with your program that's essentially spamming
because this may break Hacker News.
Now before we get into web scraping I want to note one other thing and that is this idea of an API if
you remember when we accessed you Demi was robust text.
They did tell us that there is some allowed areas that we can scrape or end points that we can use.
You see some Web sites actually allow you to access data.
For example you Demi gives us an instructor API.
That is if you're an instructor on udemy you can actually use their API.
You can see it right here so that you can get different data maybe you can get a course review list
maybe a course questions list but if I go here and I enter this in my U.R.L. I'll get an invalid missing
token.
That is because right now I'm not an instructor or at least I haven't verified that I'm an instructor
on udemy.
It's going to say hey this data is only for valid instructors so I need to pass it a token to prove
that I'm an instructor on you.
Danny and a lot of Web sites give you what we call API or application programming interface access in
a form like this called Jason to will give you the data that you need and some websites only allow you
to do this if you're a valid user for example one of the most popular API is is this GitHub API where
you can access different information from github but in order for us to use it we have to well create
a user account and validate so that we are who we say we are.
But then there's also Web sites like the Star Wars API that gives us free access that is anybody can
use it.
We don't need to verify that we are in user.
We don't have to give a token when making a request.
Instead we can just request data.
So for example if I do the sloppy API and type in people and I hit enter
Look at that I get all this data for free so that this well I can create an app around the star wars
which is what's so IP stands for it stands for the Star Wars API and we can grab all this information
that we want.
We also have things like the Jason placeholder which I really like to use when building simple projects
where we can get different information like photos you can see here that this is an API that gives us
information with different photos that we can use maybe we have different posts that we can use and
again these are what we call in Jason format which isn't HCM all but just a cleaned up version of data
so people can use it.
The easiest way to get data from a website is usually using an API.
Sometimes websites allow us to just access it easily or they might have an API but it's only restricted
to certain user.
Maybe you have to register with their service.
Maybe you have to pay for their API.
Well in that case we have this but then there's also web scraping which is maybe a Web site doesn't
give you access to an API.
Maybe you want to just have that information for example Hacker News doesn't offer an API as far as
I know.
So instead we might want to just scrape the HMO or the Web site and see what we can use.
So how can we scrape a web site using Python.
Let's find out in the next video.